New `Annotator` class (#173)
Living-with-machines/MapReader: docs/source/User-guide/Annotate.rst

MapReader's ``Annotate`` subpackage is used to interactively annotate images (e.g. maps).

.. _Annotate_images:

Annotate your images
----------------------

.. note:: Run these commands in a Jupyter notebook (or other IDE), ensuring you are in your `mr_py38` python environment.

To prepare your annotations, you must specify a number of parameters when initializing the Annotator class.

> We will use a 'rail_space' annotation task to demonstrate how to set up the annotator.

Reviewer: if it's baked in else where as `rail_space`, just leave this, but otherwise change to `railspace`

Reviewer 2: Will make a separate ticket for this to go through and check in the docs

        parent_paths="./maps/*.png",
        metadata="./maps/metadata.csv",
        annotations_dir="./annotations",
        task_name="railspace",
        labels=["no_rail_space", "rail_space"],
        username="rosie",
    )

Alternatively, if you have created/saved a ``patch_df`` and ``parent_df`` from MapReader's Load subpackage, you can replace the ``patch_paths`` and ``parent_paths`` arguments with ``patch_df`` and ``parent_df`` arguments, respectively.
e.g. :

.. code-block:: python

    from mapreader import Annotator

    # EXAMPLE
    annotator = Annotator(
        patch_df="./patch_df.csv",
        parent_df="./parent_df.csv",
        annotations_dir="./annotations",
        task_name="railspace",
        labels=["no_rail_space", "rail_space"],
        username="rosie",
    )

.. note:: You can pass either a pandas DataFrame or the path to a csv file as the ``patch_df`` and ``parent_df`` arguments.

In the above examples, the following parameters are also specified:

- ``annotations_dir``: The directory where your annotations will be saved (e.g., ``"./annotations"``).
- ``task_name``: The specific annotation task you want to perform, in this case ``"railspace"``.

> - ``labels``: A list of labels for the annotation task, such as ``"no_rail_space"`` and ``"rail_space"``.

Reviewer: same spelling change

- ``username``: Your unique identifier, which can be any string (e.g., ``"rosie"``).

Other arguments that you may want to be aware of when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance include:

- ``show_context``: Whether to show a context image in the annotation interface (default: ``False``).
- ``sortby``: The name of the column to use to sort the patch Dataframe (e.g. "mean_pixel_R" to sort by red pixel intensities).
- ``delimiter``: The delimiter to use when reading your data files (default: ``","`` for csv).

After setting up the ``Annotator`` instance, you can interactively annotate a sample of your images using:

.. code-block:: python

    annotator.annotate()

Context
~~~~~~~

To help with annotating, you can set the annotation interface to show a context image using ``show_context=True``.

> This creates a panel of patches in the annotation interface, highlighting your patch in the middle of its surrounding immediate images.

Reviewer: Change to "This creates a panel of patches in the annotation interface, highlighting your patch in the middle of its immediately surrounding area."

Question @rwood-97 - this is always 1 patch distance away, right? If so, can we say that explicitly above?

Reviewer 2: Will add docs for this - you can add ``surrounding`` kwarg to set it to more than 1.

- ``delimiter``: The delimiter to use when reading your data files (default: ``","`` for csv).

After setting up the ``Annotator`` instance, you can interactively annotate a sample of your images using:

.. code-block:: python

    annotator.annotate()

Patch size
~~~~~~~~~~

By default, your patches will be shown to you as their original size in pixels.
This can make annotating difficult if your patches are very small.
To resize your patches when viewing them in the annotation interface, you can pass the ``resize_to`` keyword argument when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance or when calling the ``annotate()`` method.

e.g. to resize your patches so that their largest edge is 300 pixels:

.. code-block:: python

    # EXAMPLE
    annotator = Annotator(
        patch_df="./patch_df.csv",
        parent_df="./parent_df.csv",
        annotations_dir="./annotations",
        task_name="railspace",
        labels=["no_rail_space", "rail_space"],
        username="rosie",
        resize_to=300,
    )

Or, equivalently, :

.. code-block:: python

    annotator.annotate(resize_to=300)

> .. note:: Passing the ``resize_to`` argument when calling the ``annotate()`` method overwrite the ``show_context`` argument passed when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note:: Passing the ``resize_to`` argument when calling the ``annotate()`` method overides the ``resize_to`` argument passed when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance.
```

Context
~~~~~~~

As well as resizing your patches, you can also set the annotation interface to show a context image using ``show_context=True``.
This creates a panel of patches in the annotation interface, highlighting your patch in the middle of its surrounding immediate images.
As above, you can either pass the ``show_context`` argument when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance or when calling the ``annotate`` method.

e.g. :

.. code-block:: python

    # EXAMPLE
    annotator = Annotator(
        patch_df="./patch_df.csv",
        parent_df="./parent_df.csv",
        annotations_dir="./annotations",
        task_name="railspace",
        labels=["no_rail_space", "rail_space"],
        username="rosie",
        show_context=True,
    )

    annotator.annotate()

Or, equivalently, :

.. code-block:: python

    annotator.annotate(show_context=True)

> .. note:: Passing the ``show_context`` argument when calling the ``annotate()`` method overwrite the ``show_context`` argument passed when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note:: Passing the ``show_context`` argument when calling the ``annotate()`` method overrides the ``show_context`` argument passed when initializing the ``Annotator`` instance.
```
